Moderation page improvements and remove deprecated /delete_room synapse api (#1462)
matrix-org/matrix.org: gatsby/content/docs/moderation-guide.mdx

![Element-deactivate-btn](/docs/projects/images/moderation8.png)

> Removing abusive rooms is done by calling the /DELETE API, e.g:

Reviewer: Thanks for taking care of this! I would tend to avoid using `/DELETE` as it makes it look like an actual endpoint. I believe you have https://matrix-org.github.io/synapse/latest/admin_api/rooms.html#delete-room-api in mind?

What about the following?
```suggestion
Removing abusive rooms is done by calling the delete room API, e.g:
```

```
curl 'https://matrix.org/_synapse/admin/v2/rooms/!roomid:matrix.org' \
-H "Authorization: Bearer $token" -X DELETE \

> -d'{"new_room_user_id": "@abuse:matrix.org", "message": "This room has been removed from the matrix.org homeserver due to violating the terms of use.", "room_name": "Room unavailable"}'

Reviewer 2: @uranuspucksaxophone I think you need to add `block: true` here for this to be equivalent to the shutdown_room API. Otherwise you are just deleting it but not disallowing people from joining in the future.

Synapse supports a module-like system which can be used to block servers from doing certain actions, such as sending invites to your users. [t2bot/synapse-simple-antispam](https://github.com/t2bot/synapse-simple-antispam) is one example of how this works - see the code for a bit more information on what is possible. Although this won't prevent servers from interacting with your server, it can help with reducing the amount of spam/malicious content.

“Defederating” your server from another server is currently done on a room by room basis - either using server ACLs if you have control of the room in question, or by using the /DELETE API if you do not.

> In future, this may be refined to let servers automatically implement /DELETE semantics on any room which matches a given pattern (e.g. whose room admins are on a given server).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In future, this may be refined to let servers automatically implement delete room API semantics on any room which matches a given pattern (e.g. whose room admins are on a given server).
```

The server admin can limit which users are allowed to publish rooms to the public room directory via the `room_list_publication_rules` config option in Synapse.

> The server admin can moderate the directory by delisting rooms by calling the /directory/list/room API with visibility: private ([https://matrix.org/docs/spec/client_server/latest.html#put-matrix-client-r0-directory-list-room-roomid](https://matrix.org/docs/spec/client_server/latest.html#put-matrix-client-r0-directory-list-room-roomid)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The server admin can moderate the directory by delisting rooms by calling the [`/directory/list/room/{roomId}` API](https://spec.matrix.org/latest/client-server-api/#put_matrixclientv3directorylistroomroomid) with `visibility: private`).
```

The server admin can limit which users are allowed to create room aliases via the `alias_creation_rules` config option in Synapse.

> The server admin can moderate the aliases that exist on their server by calling the /directory/room API with DELETE: ([https://matrix.org/docs/spec/client_server/latest.html#delete-matrix-client-r0-directory-room-roomalias](https://matrix.org/docs/spec/client_server/latest.html#delete-matrix-client-r0-directory-room-roomalias)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The server admin can moderate the aliases that exist on their server by calling the [room API](https://spec.matrix.org/latest/client-server-api/#delete_matrixclientv3directoryroomroomalias).
```
